Documentation~/index.md, before:

# Unity glTFast Documentation

*Unity glTFast* enables use of [glTF&trade; (GL Transmission Format)][gltf] asset files in [Unity][unity].

It focuses on speed, memory efficiency and a small build footprint while also providing:

- 100% [glTF 2.0 specification][gltf-spec] compliance
- Ease of use
- Robustness and Stability
- Customization and extensibility for advanced users

## Features

*Unity glTFast* supports the full [glTF 2.0 specification][gltf-spec] and many extensions. It works with Universal, High Definition and the Built-In Render Pipelines on all platforms.

See the [comprehensive list of supported features and extensions](./features.md).

### Workflows

There are four use-cases for glTF within Unity

- Import
  - [Runtime Import/Loading](ImportRuntime.md) in games/applications
  - [Editor Import](ImportEditor.md) (i.e. import assets at design-time)
- Export
  - [Runtime Export](ExportRuntime.md) (save and share dynamic, user-generated 3D content)
  - [Editor Export](ExportEditor.md) (Unity as glTF authoring tool)

![Schematic diagram of the four glTF workflows](Images/Unity-glTF-workflows.png "The four glTF workflows")

#### Runtime Import/Loading

Load and instantiate glTF files at runtime in your game/application via Script or the `GltfAsset` component.

#### Benefits of Runtime Import

- Efficiently load dynamic and/or third-party assets
  - Make use of state-of-the art mesh and texture compression methods, like KTX&trade;/Basis Universal, Draco&trade; and meshoptimizer.
- No need to re-build your application or Asset Bundles upon Unity version upgrades

*glTF* was specifically designed for vendor-independent transmission and runtime loading and naturally plays its strengths there.

#### Editor Import (Design-Time)

Although primarily designed for runtime, *glTF*'s effective design and its modern, physically-based material definition make it great for most simple DCC (digital content creation) interchange as well.

Read about [usage](ImportEditor.md) below.

##### Benefits of Editor Import

- Less friction between artists and developers due to *glTF* as standardized interface
  - Example: artists don't need to know or follow Unity shader specific conventions and thus developers don't need to instruct them
- Enables adding rich interaction and behavior to assets (e.g. custom scripts or animation controllers)
- In conjunction with [Editor Export](ExportEditor.md), Unity becomes a complete tool for re-mixing 3D content
- ¹Use default Lit (URP/HDRP) or Standard (Built-in render pipeline) materials

¹: Not yet supported (see [issue](https://github.com/atteneder/glTFast/issues/258))

#### Editor Export

Use the Unity Editor as an authoring tool and export your scenes and GameObjects as *glTFs*.

> Note: This feature is experimental

##### Use-cases for Editor Export

- [Unity runtime loading](ImportRuntime.md)
- Social media sharing
- Use within the [vast glTF eco system][gltf-projects], like third-party viewers or asset pipelines
- Archiving

#### Runtime Export

Allows your Unity-powered application/game to export scenes/GameObjects to glTF at runtime.

##### Use-cases for Runtime Export

- Preserve dynamic, user-generated 3D content
  - Create metaverse-ready 3D snapshots of a current state / game action
  - 3D product configurations (e-commerce)
- Build high level editing and authoring tools with Unity
- Social media sharing

> Note: This feature is coming soon (see [issue](https://github.com/atteneder/glTFast/issues/259))

## Trademarks

*Unity&reg;* is a registered trademark of [Unity Technologies][unity].

*Khronos&reg;* is a registered trademark and *glTF&trade;* is a trademark of [The Khronos Group Inc][khronos].

*KTX&trade;* and the KTX logo are trademarks of the [The Khronos Group Inc][khronos].

*Draco&trade;* is a trademark of [*Google LLC*][GoogleLLC].

[gltf]: https://www.khronos.org/gltf
[gltf-projects]: https://github.khronos.org/glTF-Project-Explorer
[gltf-spec]: https://www.khronos.org/registry/glTF/specs/2.0/glTF-2.0.html
[GoogleLLC]: https://about.google/
[khronos]: https://www.khronos.org
[unity]: https://unity.com

Commit message:

OpenUPM Release 6.9.0
- Synchronized Unity glTFast 6.9.0 subfolder `Packages/com.unity.cloud.gltfast` from monorepo.
- Ported over missing switch to *KTX for Unity*
- Added docs about OpenUPM branch not being a monorepo.

Documentation~/index.md, after:

# Unity glTFast Documentation

Use *glTFast* to import and export [glTF&trade;][gltf] 3D files efficiently at runtime or in the Editor.

## Installing

*Unity glTFast* is a [Package][UnityPackage] and is installed via the name `com.unity.cloud.gltfast` in the Package Manager window in Unity&reg;. See [installation](installation.md) for detailed instructions.

## Features

Speed, memory efficiency and a small build footprint are focus points of *Unity glTFast*.

The [glTF 2.0 specification][gltf-spec] and a large and growing number of [glTF extensions][gltf-ext] are supported.

All platforms as well as Universal, High Definition and Built-In Render Pipelines are supported.

Advanced users can customize or extend *glTFast* in various ways.

See the [comprehensive list of supported features and extensions](./features.md).

### Workflows

There are four use-cases for glTF within Unity

- Import
  - [Runtime Import/Loading](ImportRuntime.md) in games/applications
  - [Editor Import](ImportEditor.md) (i.e. import assets at design-time)
- Export
  - [Runtime Export](ExportRuntime.md) (save and share dynamic, user-generated 3D content)
  - [Editor Export](ExportEditor.md) (Unity as glTF authoring tool)

![Schematic diagram of the four glTF workflows](Images/Unity-glTF-workflows.png "The four glTF workflows")

#### Runtime Import/Loading

Load and instantiate glTF files at runtime in your game/application via Script or the `GltfAsset` component.

#### Benefits of Runtime Import

- Efficiently load dynamic and/or third-party assets
  - Make use of state-of-the art mesh and texture compression methods, like KTX&trade;/Basis Universal, Draco&trade; and meshoptimizer.
- No need to re-build your application or Asset Bundles upon Unity version upgrades

*glTF* was specifically designed for vendor-independent transmission and runtime loading and naturally plays its strengths there.

#### Editor Import (Design-Time)

Although primarily designed for runtime, *glTF*'s effective design and its modern, physically-based material definition make it great for most simple DCC (digital content creation) interchange as well.

Read about [usage](ImportEditor.md) below.

##### Benefits of Editor Import

- Less friction between artists and developers due to *glTF* as standardized interface
  - Example: artists don't need to know or follow Unity shader specific conventions and thus developers don't need to instruct them
- Enables adding rich interaction and behavior to assets (e.g. custom scripts or animation controllers)
- In conjunction with [Editor Export](ExportEditor.md), Unity becomes a complete tool for re-mixing 3D content
- ¹Use default Lit (URP/HDRP) or Standard (Built-in render pipeline) materials

¹: Not yet supported (see [issue](https://github.com/atteneder/glTFast/issues/258))

#### Editor Export

Use the Unity Editor as an authoring tool and export your scenes and GameObjects as *glTFs*.

> [!WARNING]
> This feature is experimental

##### Use-cases for Editor Export

- [Unity runtime loading](ImportRuntime.md)
- Social media sharing
- Use within the [vast glTF eco system][gltf-projects], like third-party viewers or asset pipelines
- Archiving

#### Runtime Export

Allows your Unity-powered application/game to export scenes/GameObjects to glTF at runtime.

##### Use-cases for Runtime Export

- Preserve dynamic, user-generated 3D content
  - Create metaverse-ready 3D snapshots of a current state / game action
  - 3D product configurations (e-commerce)
- Build high level editing and authoring tools with Unity
- Social media sharing

## Trademarks

*Unity&reg;* is a registered trademark of [Unity Technologies][unity].

*Khronos&reg;* is a registered trademark and *glTF&trade;* is a trademark of [The Khronos Group Inc][khronos].

*KTX&trade;* and the KTX logo are trademarks of the [The Khronos Group Inc][khronos].

*Draco&trade;* is a trademark of [*Google LLC*][GoogleLLC].

[gltf]: https://www.khronos.org/gltf
[gltf-projects]: https://github.khronos.org/glTF-Project-Explorer
[gltf-spec]: https://www.khronos.org/registry/glTF/specs/2.0/glTF-2.0.html
[gltf-ext]: https://registry.khronos.org/glTF/specs/2.0/glTF-2.0.html#specifying-extensions
[GoogleLLC]: https://about.google/
[khronos]: https://www.khronos.org
[unity]: https://unity.com
[UnityPackage]: https://docs.unity3d.com/Manual/PackagesList.html
